# Ogre Tutorial #

# Overview

The introductory adventure of this book contains four challenges that allows the players to progressively learn the rules of the game. The first challenge is simple requiring a single die roll while the last challenge is more complex requiring multiple roll split into many rounds and require managing resources.

This adventure is designed for 2 to 7 players, but ideally the sweet spot is to have around 4 or 5 players. One of the player will take the mantle of the storyteller and will direct the adventure while the other player will choose a character to play from appendix A.

This section broadly describe the basic elements of the game: adventures, characters and rules.

## Adventure

An adventure is a framework for the story in which the character will evolve. An adventure is split into many challenges that the players will need to solve. The full adventure will be described in the next section but here is a quick summary of the whole story.

The characters barely escape an ogre raid that destroyed their home village. After surviving a night into a neighbor forest, they discover that the ogres are marching towards a nearby city. The characters must reach the city before the ogres to warn them of their impending doom.

During the adventure, the characters will overcome the following challenges:

1. Hide from the ogres searching for them;
2. Survive the night in a forest;
3. Beat the ogres to the nearest village to warn them of the incoming attack;
4. Survive a fight before reaching the village.

Each scene in the adventure contains a description of the challenge that must be communicate by the storyteller to the other players. The simplest way to do that is to simply read the sample text in italics.

More experienced storyteller should feel free the changes names, locations or descriptions that fit more their style. Remember that an adventure is only a framework and if the storyteller, or any players, have an idea that is more fun than what is described here, feel free to adapt the framework to tell the story you wants.

## Player characters

Characters are described by many aspects that have different purpose in the game. These aspects are competences, resources and resistances.
- Competences determine the expertise of a character in a broad field and determine the number of dice to roll when using this competence.
- Resources are points that can be spent to gain a benefits or lost when failing a challenge.
- Resistances determines how difficult it is for other characters to affect the player with one of their actions.

### Non-Player characters

The beginning of the adventure introduce Yarim the guard captain that help the character escape the raid. Yarim is what is called a Non-player character, i.e. a character that is controlled uniquely by the storyteller.

Yarim is the storyteller tool to give the story a direction and gives characters clues about what to do next. Yarim should not be used to resolves challenge, but will gives advice to the characters and help them only if needed.

## Rules

Facing a challenge required the players to describe what their character will do to avoid one of the threat composing the challenge, this is call a maneuver. Based on that description, the storyteller determines which of the character's Competences will be used to solve the maneuver. The expertise level of the character in this competence will determine the maneuver roll to make.

The player roll a number of Competence dice (d6) equal to their character expertise level in the appropriate competence. Character with zero dice, such as inexperience character, roll two dice and take the lowest one as their result. A die greater or equal than the target number create a success. If the player get at least one success, the character accomplish his maneuver.

The target number vary from 4 to 6 depending if the character have advantage or disadvantage on the maneuver. Advantage is gained if the character expertise is higher than the difficulty of the maneuver and disadvantage if the expertise is lower. Advantage and disadvantage may also be granted on a maneuver depending on favorable or unfavorable situation. If a character have both advantage and disadvantage at the same time, they cancel each other and the roll is made normally.

| TN  | Situation |
| --- | --------- |
|  4  | Advantage |
|  5  | No advantage or disadvantage |
|     | Both advantage and disadvantage |
|  6  | Advantage |

Some maneuvers might require to determine how well the character succeed by determining the degree of success. The player then roll a Success die for each success and take the highest die as the degree of success for the maneuver.

In summary, to resolve a challenge the players must follow those steps

1. The player describe what his character try to accomplish to avoid a threat;
2. The storyteller determine the competence that best fit what the character wants to do;
3. The expertise level of the character in that competence determines:
    1. How many Competence dice to roll;
    2. The target number of each Competence die.
4. The player roll the dice and each die higher or equal than the target number count as a success;
5. If needed, the player roll a success die for each success and pick the highest one as the degree of success for his character maneuver.

# The Adventure

## Introduction

> You are all standing on the outskirts of the forest looking at the huge column of smoke rising from the remains of the village you called home. The village of Liddle was attack by surprise by a band of ogres coming from the east. The half dozen soldiers stationed in the village were no match against the small army of ogres.

> The chilling autumn wind bring the smell of fire and burned flesh of your friends and family. You look around yourself to count the survivor: only [number of character + 1] survived... so few. You look at Yarim, the battered down guard captain that help your group escape alive from the attack. Blood cover his cloth, pain are in his eyes, but yet he stand up protecting the survivors. Yarim turn his head abruptly and say in a soft voice: "Movement from the south, those damn ogres are on our tail. Lets hide in the forest and hope they do not find us."

## First challenge: Hiding from the enemy

The first challenge the characters will face is hiding from the ogres searching for them. To keep thing simple in the first challenge, there is only one possible maneuver to overcome the challenge, hiding that use the dissimulation competence.

This is a group challenge, either all the characters succeed or the whole group will fail. In a group challenge, a character with more than one success can help another character by giving them one of their extra success. In other word, the total number of successes of the group must be equal to the number of characters participating in the challenge.

Here is the formal description of a maneuver starting by its name, the competence used to resolve that maneuver and its difficulty level. Then it is followed by a description of the maneuver and the consequences for failing the maneuvers.

| **Hiding from ogres (Competence: Dissimulation, Difficulty: 2)** |
| --- |
| The characters tries to hide in the forest behind whatever they can find: trees, bushes or rocks. |
| Failure: The Ogre see one of the character that failed his maneuver. Before the Ogre even start moving toward the group, Yarim goes out of hiding to distract the Ogre and yell to the characters to flee deeper in the forest. Yarim survives his encounter with the Ogre and join back the group after a few minutes. Unfortunately, he was seriously wounded by the Ogre and Yarim will not be able to help the characters in the following challenges. |

## Roleplaying opportunity

Between challenge, it is generally a good time for players to roleplay their character and interact with the other character. Some group like to talk as if it were their character talking, but some other prefer to simply describe the interaction between characters. Try both approach during the adventure and see what best fit your group.

As your group get better at roleplaying their character, the gamemaster will not need to create roleplaying opportunity as the player will go forward by themselves. But to get them started, you can use Yarim to start a conversation.

> As your group catch it's breath, Yarim look at everybody and say: "We're gonna stay here for the night, it's too dangerous to move at night. Who know what other demons are in the region. If we have to survive this, I'll need to know what you are capable of doing."'

The let the character introduced themselves by making dialog or by describing their character to the other players.

## Second challenge: surviving the night

The characters have taken refuge in the woods after the attack, but before the night come they will have to make camp. The characters may face up to 3 threats for the night: Weariness, Hunger and Cold. The storyteller should choose 1 threat per 2 players. Each player will receive a maneuver and an action to face the challenge or their character will suffer from strains.

If the players have succeed at the first challenge, Yarim will receive one action to aid any other character on their maneuver, but if they failed the first maneuver, Yarim is too wounded to make anything except some talking.

This challenges introduce four new concepts:

- Degree of success;
- Actions that complement maneuvers;
- Energy spend to improve maneuvers or gain extra actions.
- Strains as a penalty for failing challenges;

### Degree of Success

In the first challenge, a success means that a character avoid the threat, but in this challenge, the number of characters avoiding a threat is determine by the degree of success of a maneuver. After a successful maneuver, the player rolls a number of dice equal to the successes of the maneuver and pick the highest die. The die type to roll is specified in the success entry of the maneuver description.

### Actions

An action is something mundane that a character does that do not require a specific competence and do not require any die roll. Hunting an animal for food require some competence and a maneuver roll, but cooking the meat to be edible is mundane and automatically succeed.

An action can also be spend to help with a maneuver. To do so, the player describes how his character helps another character or how he used knowledge from another field of expertise to help himself. The helper roll a single Competence die against the difficulty of the task. If the roll is successful, add a success to the character making the maneuver. A character can receive any number of extra success, but cannot have more successes than his competence level.

### Energy

Each character have a pool of Energy from which the player can spend points to either increase the number of successes of a maneuver or making extra actions. Energy is split into two pools: Fatigue and Exhaustion.

Fatigue represents short-term energy and is depleted first and is completely restored after a challenge. Exhaustion is depleted when a character is pushed beyond normal fatigue and is partially restored when the character have the time to take a complete rest. During this adventure, the characters will not have the opportunity to take a complete rest and thus will not regain lost Exhaustion.

Spending energy cost 1 point per time you used energy in a challenge. The first time a player spend energy, the energy pool, starting with Fatigue, is reduced by 1 point. The second time a player spend energy, reduce the pool by 2 more points, the third time by 3 more points and so on. This mean that spending energy is cumulative and a player spending energy 3 times would require to spend 6 points of energy in total (1+2+3).

#### Increasing successes

Sometimes a successful maneuver does not generate a high enough degree of success to be useful. A player can increase the degree of success of a maneuver by spending energy. For each use of energy, increase the degree of success by one, up to the success dice maximum.

#### Taking extra actions

During a challenge, a player might want his character to take more than one action. For each use of energy, the character gains an extra action.

There are no limit to the number of actions a character can make, but each action must be used for a different purpose. For example, a player cannot use two actions to help with the same maneuver.

### Strains

Failing to overcome a threat will cause a level of strain to the character reducing both its maximum Hit points and Energy points starting with the short term pool (Defense and Fatigue). The first level of strain reduce the pools maximum by 1 point, the second  level by 2 more points and so on. As for spending energy, strains are cumulative, meaning that a character with 2 levels of strain reduce its pools maximum by a total of 3 points.

| Level of strains | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Cumulative reduction of maximum pool points | -1 | -3 | -6 | -10 |

Reduced Hit points will make the fourth challenge more difficult and reduced Energy will make all following challenges harder by having less resources to get extra action or increase degree of success.

### Dealing with the threats

Now that you know how to overcome the threats of the second challenge, we will look in more detail how each specific threat can be dealt with. Each threat will list the competence generally used to face it, the difficulty of the threat and the success die that determines the degree of success.

Roleplaying games are about freedom of action and imagination and it is impossible to list all the ways a challenge can be overcome. If a player find an interesting way to resolve a challenge that is not listed in the threat description the storyteller should find a suitable competence to roll, assign a difficulty level of 2 or 3 and a success die of d6 or d8 based on the description of the threat.

#### Weariness

If the storyteller choose the Weariness threat, characters will need to find a place where they will be able to sleep well enough to not be tired in the morning. If this threat is not chosen, the storyteller simply explain that Yarim already know a nice clearing in the forest where they will be able to make camp.

To face this threat, the characters might search for a suitable place to camp in the forest or build a camp from tree and branches. Building a camp is more difficult than finding a safe place, but will shelter more characters.

| **Finding a resting place (Competence: Nature, Difficulty: 2, Success: 1d6)** |
| --- |
| The nature competence can be used to find a nice place in the forest where the group will be able to sleep on soft ground.|
| Failure: Weariness strains. |

| **Build a camp (Competence: Craft, Difficulty: 3, success: 1d8)** |
| --- |
| The character can use woods and leaves to build a small shelter where people will be able to rest peacefully.|
| Failure: Weariness strains. |

#### Hunger

The attack happen before supper and characters are starving. If the storyteller choose this threat, the character must find food themselves in the forest. If the storyteller do not choose this threat, Yarim have bread and cheese in his backpack and his happy to share it with everybody.

To find food, characters can try to hunt for meat or pick small fruits from bushes. Finding fruits will be harder than hunting since it is late fall, but hunting require a fire to cook the meat.

| **Hunting (Competence: Animal, Difficulty: 2, Success: 1d8)** |
| --- |
| The character goes hunting small animal in the forest. The characters won't eat raw meat so a fire must be build (a craft maneuver) and an action must be spend to prepare and cook the meat.|
|Failure: Hunger strains. |

| **Gathering (Competence: Nature, Difficulty: 3, success: 1d6)** |
| --- |
| The character goes fruit picking and will bring berries and apple to the group.|
| Failure: Hunger strains. |

#### Cold

The nights are cold at this time of the year. If the storyteller choose this threat, a cold wind blows in the forest chilling the bones of the characters. If the threat is not chosen, the storyteller describe the night as one of the last warm night of the season.

| **Starting a fire (Competence: Craft, Difficulty: 2, Success: 1d8)** |
| --- |
| The character rub two sticks together in order to start a fire. An action will be needed to fetch enough woods for the night.|
| Failure: Cold strains. |

| **Find a natural shelter (Competence: Nature, Difficulty: 3, success: 1d6)** |
| --- |
| The nature competence can be used to find a burrow where the group will be protected from the cold wind.|
| Failure: Cold strains. |

## Third challenge (warn the city):

> Dawn has only begun and Yarim stirs everyone from their uncomfortable sleep. "The ogres are marching towards the city of Amun. If they are caught by surprise like we were, they are lost. If we hurry, we might be able to warn them and help them prepare a proper defense. We should move now."

The road between Liddle and Amun cross three zones: Liddle forest where the characters have spend the night, the Usha rivers and the Amun plain. To travel through each zone, the characters will need to succeed at different maneuvers. Each maneuver require that the group accumulate at least one success per character.

In this challenge, you will learn about:
- Multiple rounds challenge
- Time challenge

### Multiple rounds
Since this challenge requires many maneuvers, it will be split into multiple rounds. Each round, character receive a maneuver and an action. When all character have act, a new round begins and each character receive another maneuver and action. Actions not spent in a round can be used in further rounds, but maneuvers that are not used are automatically converted into an extra action.

### Time challenge
This is a time challenge meaning that the characters have a limited time to succeed at all challenges. The ogres will reach Amun village in 8 hours, so the characters must reach their destination in this amount of time.

Each zone require a certain amount of time to travel depending on the path chosen by the characters. The players must choose each path wisely so that the sum of the time it takes to succeed does not go over 8 hours.

Some path ask for an easy maneuver, but take a longer time to travel while other are harder but require less time. But for each round that end, you must add an extra hour to the total of the travel. Short path may take more time than long one if it requires many round to acquire the necessary success to follow them.

### Hunger threat

Furthermore, the characters will face a hunger threat, so they will need to spend at least one action eating before reaching Amun village or they will suffer from a strain level.

If they are lucky, they will have leftovers from the previous day. If not, they will need to spend maneuvers searching for food. The maneuver difficulty will depends in which zone the characters try to find food.

| **Hunting/Fishing (Competence: Animal)** |
| --- |
| - **Liddle forest (Difficulty: 2, Success: 1d8)** |
| - **Usha river (Difficulty: 1, Success: 1d6)** |
| - **Amun plain (Difficulty: 3, Succes: 1d4)** |
| The character goes hunting small animal or goes fishing in the Usha river. The characters won't eat raw meat so a fire must be build (a craft maneuver with difficulty 2 in all zone) and an action must be spend to prepare and cook the meat. |
| Failure: Hunger strains. |

| **Gathering (Competence: Nature)** |
| --- |
| - **Liddle forest (Difficulty: 3, Success: 1d6)** |
| - **Usha river (Difficulty: 3, Success: 1d4)** |
| - **Amun plain (Difficulty: 1, Success: 1d8)** |
| The character goes fruit picking and will bring berries and apple to the group. |
| Failure: Hunger strains. |

### Liddle forest

To cross Liddle forest, the characters have two options. They can either take the old northern trail which takes four hours to travel or cut through the forest which require only two hours but require a more difficult navigation maneuver to avoid getting lost in the forest.

| **The old northern trail (Competence: Navigation, Difficulty: 1, Time: 4 hours)** |
| --- |
| There is an old trail in the forest that is not used much anymore since the northern mine has closed. The trail should be easy to follow without getting lost but unfortunately Amun lies to the south west of Liddle making it a detour. |

| **Cut through the forest (Competence: Navigation, Difficulty: 3, Time: 2 hours)** |
| --- |
| The characters may decide to use the direct route and go south west from their position, but the forest is thick and you can easily get lost. |

### Usha river

The Usha river area can be travelled in about two hours at a fast pace, but there are any only a few places where the river can be crossed safely.

| **Use main bridge (Competence: Dissimulation, Difficulty: 4, Time: 2 hours)** |
| --- |
| The quickest way to cross the Usha river is to use the bridge of the main road. Unfortunately, it is also the path the ogres army is marching. If they take this path, the character will have to cross the bridge without being seen by the ogre army. |

| **Cross the ford (Competence: Acrobatic, Difficulty: 2, Time: 3 hours)** |
| --- |
| South of the Usha bridge lie the grey ford, a narrow point in the river where the characters can jump from rocks to rocks to cross water requiring some acrobatic skills. |

| **Build a bridge (Competence: Craft, Difficulty: 1, Time: 4 hours)** |
| --- |
| Even further south, there lie a little patch of wood where the character can craft a makeshift bridge with a fallen tree and safely cross the river. |

### Amun plain

The Amun plain offer no particular challenges to the characters, but if they are running out of time, they might be require to rush through the plain to get to the village before the ogres.

| **Fast walk (Competence: Athletic, Difficulty: 1, Time: 3 hours)** |
| --- |
| If the character have taken some advance, they can cross the plain at a quick pace and still reach the village before the ogres. |

| **Jogging (Competence: Athletic, Difficulty: 2, Time: 2 hours)** |
| --- |
| If the characters had some difficulties in the other areas, they might need to run part of the plain by increasing their pace. |

| **Running (Competence: Athletic, Difficulty: 3, Time: 1 hour)** |
| --- |
| If the characters are out of time, they will have no choice to push their legs to their limit and run without stopping to catch their breath. |

### Slowing the ogres

If the players think that their characters will need more than 8 hours to reach Amun, they can try to slow down the ogres. This can be risky because if the maneuver does not succeed, the ogres will understand the characters plan and will march faster reaching Amun one hour earlier.

| **Falling a tree (Competence: Nature, Difficulty: 3)** |
| --- |
| While in Liddle forest, the nature competence can be used to fell trees on the road used by the ogres. Even if the ogres are very strong, they will need some time to clear the road.|
| Failure: The ogres will reach Amun in one less hour. |

| **Collapsing the bridge (Competence: Sabotage, Difficulty: 2)** |
| --- |
| The Usha river bridge is old and made of wood. It can easily support a few man crossing it at the same time, but the ogres are massive. By weakening the bridge, a clever character can arrange the bridge so that it will collapse under the ogres weight.|
| Failure: The ogres will reach Amun in one less hour. |

## Final challenge (ambushed):

> As you approach Amun, you hear monstrous screams in the sky. As you look up, you see a flock of harpies plunge toward your group. Fortunately, there is an old barn nearby where you can take shelter. As you close the door behind you, you notice that the old bar wasn't a shelter, but a trap.*

In the barn, there should be a demon per two characters starting with an harpy and Rakshasa demons afterward.

> There is an hole in the roof where an harpy is already entering the barn. The harpy is not alone, [one or two] Rakshasa demons come out of hiding ready to devour your flesh.*

For the final challenge, the character will need to survive a combat against demons. The goal of a combat is to deplete the enemies hit point pool before the player’s pool is depleted. Each successful attack maneuver will reduce the hit points of an opponent starting with Defense. When the opponent has no more defense, he is at disadvantage and Health is reduced afterward. When a combatant has no health left, the combatant is incapacitated i.e. fall unconscious and cannot act until a health point is recovered.

To prevail in combat, characters will have to manage carefully their resources (actions, hit points, energy and position) and use the battlefield to their best advantage. A combat is resolved as a multi-round challenge that end when a side is defeated, surrender or flee the battlefield. Each round of combat is further divided into three distinct phases: offensive, defensive and reactive.

In order to act in the offensive phase, a character must have Initiative. At the start of combat, every player roll a Military maneuver to assess the battlefield. Each success allows the character to either gain Initiative, gain an extra action or gain an extra position point. Character that did not gain initiative can only act in the reactive phase. During the defensive phase, the opponents make their move against the characters.

All maneuvers in the same phase happen simultaneously and the resolution order is decided between the players or by the storyteller for the defensive phase.

To summarize, the flow of battle goes like that:

1. Roll a Military maneuver to assess the battlefield.
2. Players with initiative act first in the offensive phase.
3. The defensive phase start and it's the turn of the opponents to attack.
4. In the reactive phase, characters that have not act yet can do so.
5. Start again at step 2 until one side is defeated.

### Player's turn (Offensive and reactive phase)

Like any multi-round challenge, each player receive at the start of a round an action and a maneuver. Actions can be spend to manipulate a piece of equipment or any object on the battlefield. They can also be used to help another character make an offensive maneuver.

As per the normal rule, energy can be spent to get additional actions or to increase the degree of success of a maneuver. The difference is that the cost of spending energy is reset to one at the start of each round instead of the start of each challenge.

A character with Initiative can make its maneuver either in the offensive or reactive phase and aid character acting in any of those phases. A character without Initiative can only make its maneuvers in the reactive phase or help others in the same phase.

On it's turn a character can:
1. spend a position point to occupy a vantage point;
2. spend a position point to engage an opponent;
3. attack an opponent with an offensive maneuver;
    - The difficulty is determined by the opponent appropriate resistance for the attack;
    - The success die is determined by the weapon used and the result is subtracted from the defender hit points.

#### Occupy a vantage point

A battlefield can have multiple vantage points that gives a benefits to a combatant that take advantage of it. To gain the benefits of a vantage point, the player must spend a position point to occupy it. As long as that character occupy the vantage point, no other character can use it.

For example, there is an old cart in the barn which can provide cover against range attack for a single character that occupy the vantage points.

A character can be remove from a vantage point from an attack that trick him out of position.

#### Engage an opponent

During combat, combatants are constantly moving around the battlefield. In order to attack a specific opponent in melee, a character must first engage the opponent by spending a position point. When engaged, combatants are less mobile and require spending one additional position points per engaged enemy when trying to occupy a vantage point or engage another opponent. Furthermore, to hinder the attack of an opponent in the defensive phase, the character must be engaged with the foe. Engagement can be broken by a successful trick maneuver.

Range attack does not require to be engaged with an opponent first and work best when the target is not engaged since range attack are reduced by 1 dice per opponent engaged with the target.

#### Make an offensive maneuver

A big part of combat strategy is to pick the most appropriate offensive maneuver to pierce the defense of an opponent. There are five different offensive maneuvers to choose from when making an attack. The difficulty of an attack maneuver depends on the appropriate resistance of the defender.

To make an attack, the player roll the appropriate competence and for each success, decide whether his character:
- incapacitate an opponent;
- cause a combat effect.

**Incapacitate:** For each success spend to incapacitate an opponent, you roll a success die and pick the highest one. The defender then subtract the result from their hit points pool.

The success die is determined by your weapon type and by whether you have advantage or disadvantage on damage. Advantage increase by one step the success die while disadvantage reduce it by one step. Advantage is gained if your weapon grade is higher than your opponent armor grade. Damage is at disadvantage against armored opponent.

| Situation    | Description |
| --           | ----------- |
| Advantage    | Unarmored opponent |
| Normal       | Armored opponent, weapon grade higher than armor grade |
| Disadvantage | Armored opponent, weapon grade equal or less than armor grade |


**Combat effect:** Instead of rolling a success die, an attacker may choose a combat effect depending on the maneuver. An attacker that spend all his success die on combat effect does not deal damage to the defender.

| Combat (Competence: Military, Difficulty: Opponent's Reflex, Success: Weapon) |
| --- |
| A Combat maneuvers consists of quick attacks, parries and ripostes to find an opening in the opponent defense for your strike. When using combat maneuvers, a character tries to maximize its effectiveness. |
| *Critical hit:* Increase all success die used to incapacitate an opponent by one step.|
| *Disadvantage:* Foe is at disadvantage against next attack or for its next attack. |

| Daunt (Competence: Persuasion, Difficulty: Opponent's Presence, Success: Weapon) |
| --- |
| A daunting attacks shows how superior you are to your opponent by making flashy moves, by intimidation or by taunt. Awe opponents hesitate giving you some time to strike and catch your breath to recover lost resources. |
| *Regain defense:* Recover lost defense as indicate on the character sheet.|
| *Regain fatigue:* Recover lost fatigue as indicate on the character sheet. |

| Feint (Competence: Dissimulation, Difficulty: Opponent's Awareness, Success: Weapon) |
| --- |
| A feint is a series of misleading attack that expose your opponent exactly where you wanted to strike. Character that feint seeks to gain extra resources for the combat. |
| *Action:* Get an extra action.|
| *Initiative:* Gain initiative if you do not have it.|
| *Position:* Get an extra position point. |

| Scuffle (Competence: Athletic, Difficulty: Opponent's Stamina, Success: Weapon) |
| --- |
| Disorient an opponent with chaotic strikes involving bare fist, pummel and shield. The goal of a scuffle attack is to reduced the opponent's resources. |
| Combat Effect |
| *Disorient:* Opponent lose an action|
| *Initiative:* Opponent lose initiative if he has it |
| *Position:* Opponent lose a position point |

| Trick (Competence: Subterfuge, Difficulty: Opponent's Intelligence, Success: Weapon) |
| --- |
| Trick an opponent by forcing them to make a mistake and end up in a bad position. Tricky combatant tries to control the battlefield. |
| Combat Effect |
| *Break engagement:* You can break your engagement against one opponent |
| *Dislodge an opponent:* Remove an opponent from a vantage point |
| *Activate obstacle*: Activate an obstacle upon the opponent |

**Obstacles:** Some battlefield feature obstacles that hinder opponent that are caught in them. It generally require an action or a maneuver to escape the obstacle. For example, an opponent caught in a mud patch must succeed an Athletic maneuvers to get out of the obstacle. As for vantage points, only a single character can be caught in an obstacle.

### The opponent's turn (defensive phase)

During the defensive phase, it is the turn of the demon to retaliate against the character. If there is free vantage point that can be useful to the demons, do not hesitate to occupy that vantage point. As a rule of thumb, a demon will attack opponents that are already engage with them.

Even if it's the opponents turn, characters can be active by hindering an attack or defending against an attack.

#### Hinder an attack

If you are engaged with an opponent, you can try to hinder any of if its attack by spending an action. The player describes how his character hinder the attacker and the player roll a single Competence die from the appropriate competence against the expertise of the attack. If the roll is successful, the number of successes of the attacker is reduce by one.

A character can only spend one action to hinder an attacker, but many different characters can hinder the same opponent.

#### Defend against an attack

A character can spend an action to either parry, block or dodge an attack that is directed against him. The player roll a single Competence die against the expertise of the attack. If the roll is successful, the number of successes of the attacker is reduce by one. Only a single defensive action can be taken against an offensive maneuver.

**Block**: The defender use his shield to block any offensive maneuver. The expertise of a block is determine by the grade of the shield.

**Dodge**: Then defender take a step to avoid a melee attack or a thrown weapon. The expertise of a dodge is determine by the Acrobatics competence.

**Parry**: The defender use his melee weapon to deflect or block an attacker melee attack. The expertise of a parry is determine by the grade of the weapon.

### The combat challenge

bloubloublou

#### The battlefield

The combat take place in an old barn and the character have interest of taking advantage of the battlefield features.

On the far end of the barn there is an old ladder to access what used to be a second floor. While the floor board have mostly fallen, the beam seem solid enough to walk on it. On the left there is a pile of old straw ballot that smells old humidity but can gives someone higher ground. On the right there are old rusty tools and a wheel less broken cart that could provide cover. Below the hole in the roof, there is a patch of slippery mud that is sure to hinder any combatant fighting inn that area.

| **Feature**    | **Effect** |
| -              | ----       |
| Obstacles      |
| Mud and manure | An combatant can push a foe into a slippery patch of mud and manure. The foe must spend an action each round or fall prone. A prone character is at disadvantage. An action can be spend to stand up when prone. To escape the obstacle, it require a level 2 athletic maneuver. |
| Vantage points |
| Old cart       | A character can position himself behind an old cart and receive cover against ranged and flying attack. Opponents attacking a character with cover remove a dice from their competence roll. |
| Straw ballot   | A character can position himself at the top of a pile of straw ballot giving him higher ground. This character have advantage for range attack against grounded opponent. |
| Roof beam      | A character can climb on the beams holding the roof. From there, the character can make melee attack against flying creature. |

#### The opponents

Intro to monster description

##### Harpy

Harpy description

| Abilities     |          |                                                                                                        |
| ------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Lure          | Success  | On a shriek attack, the harpy can trade a success die to make the target of the attack move into an obstacle or leave a vantage point.
| Mesmerize     | Success  | On a shriek attack, the opponent is disoriented losing an action.                                      |
| Wail of death | Trigger  | When an harpy becomes defenseless, she will make a terryfying shriek piercing the ears of every foes in the area. (Feint Attack)

| Attacks        | Aminah | Belur | Edgar | Efthalia | Karasu | Manasa |
| -------------- | ------ | ----- | ----- | -------- | ------ | ------ |
| Shriek (Range) |  1d8   |  1d4  |  1d6  |    1d8   |   1d8  |   1d6  |
| Talon (Melee)  |  1d6   |  0d4  |  1d4  |    1d6   |   1d6  |   1d4  |

##### Rakshasa - Goat

Rakshasa - Goat description

| Abilities     |          |                                                                                                        |
| ------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Ram charge    | Maneuver | When engaging a new opponent, the Rakshasa charge head on with its horn (Scuffle attack)               |
| Push          | Success  | On a ram attack, the opponent is push back and is disengaged from the Rakshasa.                        |

| Attacks       | Aminah | Belur | Edgar | Efthalia | Karasu | Manasa |
| ------------- | ------ | ----- | ----- | -------- | ------ | ------ |
| Sword (Melee) |  1d8   |  1d4  |  1d6  |    1d8   |   1d8  |   1d6  |
| Ram (Melee)   |  1d6   |  0d4  |  1d4  |    1d6   |   1d6  |   1d4  |
| Ram charge    |  1d10  |  1d6  |  1d8  |    1d10  |   1d10 |   1d8  |

##### Rakshasa - Feline

Rakshasa - Feline description

| Abilities     |          |                                                                                                        |
| ------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Rake          | Maneuver | Against a prone opponent, the Rakshasa can rake with both its claw at the same time.                   |
| Trip          | Success  | On a tail attack, the opponent end prone.                                                              |

| Attacks       | Aminah | Belur | Edgar | Efthalia | Karasu | Manasa |
| ------------- | ------ | ----- | ----- | -------- | ------ | ------ |
| Claw (Melee)  |  1d8   |  1d4  |  1d6  |    1d8   |   1d8  |   1d6  |
| Claw (Rake)   |  1d10  |  1d6  |  1d8  |    1d10  |   1d10 |   1d8  |
| Tail (Melee)  |  1d6   |  0d4  |  1d4  |    1d6   |   1d6  |   1d4  |

|              | Harpy | Rakshasa - Goat | Rakshasa - Feline |
| ------------ | :---: | :-------------: | :---------------: |
| Hit Points   | 13/6  |       9/9       |       11/6        |
| Energy       |  7/9  |      11/9       |       15/6        |
| Position     |   7   |        5        |         6         |
| Combat       |  3/4  |       3/2       |        3/3        |
| Daunt        |  2/2  |       2/2       |        1/-        |
| Feint        |  3/4  |       1/2       |        3/3        |
| Scuffle      |  2/-  |       4/2       |        3/-        |
| Trick        |  2/1  |       1/3       |        3/5        |
| Armor        |   -   |        3        |         1         |
| Block        |   -   |        2        |         -         |
| Dodge        |   2   |        1        |         3         |
| Parry        |   -   |        1        |         1         |

## Aftermath

sadasdass

# Appendix A

Quick description of the character sheets. Tips: change name, sex, backstory.

{pagebreak}

## Aminah the ascetic Jinn

Aminha has been raised in the desert as a protector for the Sand navigator, a group of recluse nomad seeking deep understanding of the great sea of sands. As a protector, Aminha has learn the secret of the stone fist which allows her to transform her fist into stone making them deadly weapons.

Unfortunately, this secret was not enough to protect the navigators from a ghül raid. Aminah failed in her role of protector and her clan was decimated. Aminha has fled the desert to start a new life in Liddle leaving the memories of her lost far behind. As the Ogre tear down her new home, she feel powerless again unable to protect her own. She look at the few survivor of Liddle and vow in secret to protect them at all cost. She won't fail them this time.

| Aminha      |       |               |       |            |       |               |       |            |       |
| ---------   | :---: | ---------     | :---: | ---------  | :---: | --------      | :---: | --------   | :---: |
| Resources   |       |               |       |            |       |               |       |            |       |
| Hit Points  | 9/12  | Energy Points |  9/6  | Position   |   4   | Load          |   9   |            |       |
| Competences |       |               |       |            |       |               |       |            |       |
| Acrobatics  |   1   | Animal        |   2   | Artistic   |   -   | Athletic      |   3   | Commerce   |   -   |
| Craft       |   3   | Dissimulation |   -   | Humanities |   2   | Investigation |   -   | Medical    |   3   |
| Military    |   2   | Nature        |   1   | Navigation |   2   | Occult        |   -   | Persuasion |   2   |
| Recreation  |   -   | Sabotage      |   -   | Science    |   -   | Society       |   2   | Subterfuge |   1   |
| Fighting    |       |               |       |            |       |               |       |            |       |
| Combat      |  2/2  | Daunt         |  1/-  | Feint      |  -/1  | Scuffle       |  3/3  | Trick      |  2/2  |
| Armor       |   -   | Shield        |   -   | Weapon     |   1   | Dodge         |   1   |            |       |

| Abilities       |        |                                                                                                |
| ----------      | -----  | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Fist of stone   | Action | Aminah can turn her fists into stone dealing 1d6 points of damage per attack.                  |
| Flurry of blows | Action | Aminah can make small, but fast attacks. Instead of taking the highest Success die, Aminah can add Success dice together increasing damage. |

Equipment: None

{pagebreak}

## Belur the Dvegar merchant

Belur left the mountains during the Troll invasion to take refuge with the human. Since then, he have been an axe for hire to gain his keep. It has been two years now that he work for Yarim defending Liddle.

Belur has used his economy to set up a small shop in Amun where he can sell the weapon and armor that he craft in the hope to retire from a soldiers life.

| Belur       |       |               |       |            |       |               |       |            |       |
| ---------   | :---: | ---------     | :---: | ---------  | :---: | --------      | :---: | --------   | :---: |
| Resources   |       |               |       |            |       |               |       |            |       |
| Hit Points  | 7/12  | Energy Points |  3/12 | Position   |   3   | Load          |   9   |            |       |
| Competences |       |               |       |            |       |               |       |            |       |
| Acrobatics  |   1   | Animal        |   1   | Artistic   |   -   | Athletic      |   3   | Commerce   |   3   |
| Craft       |   3   | Dissimulation |   -   | Humanities |   -   | Investigation |   -   | Medical    |   2   |
| Military    |   3   | Nature        |   2   | Navigation |   2   | Occult        |   -   | Persuasion |   1   |
| Recreation  |   3   | Sabotage      |   -   | Science    |   -   | Society       |   -   | Subterfuge |   -   |
| Fighting    |       |               |       |            |       |               |       |            |       |
| Combat      |  3/1  | Daunt         |  1/3  | Feint      |  -/-  | Scuffle       |  3/3  | Trick      |  -/-  |
| Armor       |   3   | Shield        |   3   | Weapon     |   3   | Dodge         |   1   |            |       |

| Abilities    |         |                                                                                                |
| ----------   | -----   | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Battle ready | Passive | Belur has advantage when rolling Military maneuver to assess a battlefield before combat.      |
| Keep focus   | Action  | When an opponent engage with Belur attacks another target, the attack is made at disadvantage. |

Equipment: Axe (1d8), Mail, shield

{pagebreak}

## Edgar the Human bard

Edgar is wandering from city to city hoping to inspire greatness in people with his poetry. He has a great love story with a women living in Amun. She do not know yet about that great love, but if Amun fall to the Ogre, she will never know true love.

| Edgar       |       |               |       |            |       |               |       |            |       |
| ---------   | :---: | ---------     | :---: | ---------  | :---: | --------      | :---: | --------   | :---: |
| Resources   |       |               |       |            |       |               |       |            |       |
| Hit Points  |  9/6  | Energy Points |  7/12 | Position   |   5   | Load          |   3   |            |       |
| Competences |       |               |       |            |       |               |       |            |       |
| Acrobatics  |   -   | Animal        |   -   | Artistic   |   3   | Athletic      |   1   | Commerce   |   1   |
| Craft       |   -   | Dissimulation |   -   | Humanities |   3   | Investigation |   3   | Medical    |   -   |
| Military    |   3   | Nature        |   1   | Navigation |   2   | Occult        |   -   | Persuasion |   3   |
| Recreation  |   -   | Sabotage      |   -   | Science    |   -   | Society       |   3   | Subterfuge |   1   |
| Fighting    |       |               |       |            |       |               |       |            |       |
| Combat      |  3/2  | Daunt         |  2/3  | Feint      |  -/2  | Scuffle       |  1/-  | Trick      |  1/1  |
| Armor       |   1   | Shield        |   -   | Weapon     |   3   | Dodge         |   -   |            |       |

| Abilities           |         |                                                                                         |
| ----------          | -----   | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Defensive formation | Action  | Create a battle formation with up to 2 allies who must spend a position point to join the formation. While in formation, any character can spend an action to transfer up to 3 defense points to another member of the formation.      |
| Inspire             | Action  | An ally gain advantage on its maneuver.                                                 |

Equipment: Sword(1d8), Cuir Bouilli

{pagebreak}

## Efthalia the Dryad ranger

| Name       | Race       | Culture     | Vocation   | Profession |
| ---------- | ---------- | ----------  | ---------- | ---------- |
| Efthalia   | Dryad      | Sylvan      | Explorer   | Ranger     |

Description

| Efthalia    |       |               |       |            |       |               |       |            |       |
| ---------   | :---: | ---------     | :---: | ---------  | :---: | --------      | :---: | --------   | :---: |
| Resources   |       |               |       |            |       |               |       |            |       |
| Hit Points  |  7/7  | Energy Points |  9/7  | Position   |   6   | Load          |   4   |            |       |
| Competences |       |               |       |            |       |               |       |            |       |
| Acrobatics  |   2   | Animal        |   3   | Artistic   |   2   | Athletic      |   1   | Commerce   |   -   |
| Craft       |   2   | Dissimulation |   2   | Humanities |   -   | Investigation |   -   | Medical    |   1   |
| Military    |   2   | Nature        |   3   | Navigation |   3   | Occult        |   -   | Persuasion |   1   |
| Recreation  |   -   | Sabotage      |   -   | Science    |   -   | Society       |   -   | Subterfuge |   2   |
| Fighting    |       |               |       |            |       |               |       |            |       |
| Combat      |  2/1  | Daunt         |  1/1  | Feint      |  2/3  | Scuffle       |  1/1  | Trick      |  2/2  |
| Armor       |   -   | Shield        |   -   | Weapon     |   1   | Dodge         |   2   |            |       |

| Abilities       |          |                                                                                         |
| ----------      | -----    | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Camouflage      | Maneuver | Efthalia can change the color of her skin to blend with nature allowing her to make a level 3 Dissimulation maneuver in forest.      |
| Encampment      | Passive  | Increase success die of maneuvers to make camp.                                         |

Equipment: Staff (1d10, 2 handed).

{pagebreak}

## Karasu the Tengu archer

Description

Brother in Amun

| Karasu      |       |               |       |            |       |               |       |            |       |
| ---------   | :---: | ---------     | :---: | ---------  | :---: | --------      | :---: | --------   | :---: |
| Resources   |       |               |       |            |       |               |       |            |       |
| Hit Points  |  9/7  | Energy Points |  9/6  | Position   |   6   | Load          |   4   |            |       |
| Competences |       |               |       |            |       |               |       |            |       |
| Acrobatics  |   3   | Animal        |   1   | Artistic   |   1   | Athletic      |   2   | Commerce   |   -   |
| Craft       |   3   | Dissimulation |   3   | Humanities |   -   | Investigation |   -   | Medical    |   -   |
| Military    |   3   | Nature        |   3   | Navigation |   -   | Occult        |   -   | Persuasion |   -   |
| Recreation  |   -   | Sabotage      |   2   | Science    |   1   | Society       |   -   | Subterfuge |   2   |
| Fighting    |       |               |       |            |       |               |       |            |       |
| Combat      |  3/2  | Daunt         |  -/-  | Feint      |  3/3  | Scuffle       |  2/1  | Trick      |  2/2  |
| Armor       |   -   | Shield        |   -   | Weapon     |   2   | Dodge         |   3   |            |       |

| Abilities       |         |                                                                                         |
| ----------      | -----   | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Feather fall    | Action  | Karasu can spread what is left of his wings to slow down a fall avoiding taking damage. |
| Hunting Mastery | Passive | When rolling a success die on an hunting maneuver, the minimum number of success is 3.  |

Equipment: Sword (1d8), Bow (1d8, range).

{pagebreak}

## Manasa the Naga slave

Description

Live in Amun, want to protect home

| Manasa      |       |               |       |            |       |               |       |            |       |
| ---------   | :---: | ---------     | :---: | ---------  | :---: | --------      | :---: | --------   | :---: |
| Resources   |       |               |       |            |       |               |       |            |       |
| Hit Points  | 12/6  | Energy Points |  12/9 | Position   |   3   | Load          |   3   |            |       |
| Competences |       |               |       |            |       |               |       |            |       |
| Acrobatics  |   2   | Animal        |   2   | Artistic   |   -   | Athletic      |   3   | Commerce   |   2   |
| Craft       |   1   | Dissimulation |   3   | Humanities |   -   | Investigation |   -   | Medical    |   -   |
| Military    |   3   | Nature        |   1   | Navigation |   -   | Occult        |   -   | Persuasion |   -   |
| Recreation  |   1   | Sabotage      |   3   | Science    |   -   | Society       |   -   | Subterfuge |   3   |
| Fighting    |       |               |       |            |       |               |       |            |       |
| Combat      |  3/3  | Daunt         |  -/2  | Feint      |  3/-  | Scuffle       |  3/-  | Trick      |  3/3  |
| Armor       |   1   | Shield        |   -   | Weapon     |   2   | Dodge         |   2   |            |       |

| Abilities   |         |                                                                                         |
| ----------- | ------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Thick scale | Passive | Manasa has thick scale that serves as a grade one natural armor.                        |
| Slither     | Passive | Manasa can slither with ease when on the ground and ignore all penalty for being prone. |

Equipment: Sword (1d8)
